20 Reasons Why World Football Is the Best Sport in the World
There are people who debate what the most popular sport in the world is. 

Most people may argue that American football or basketball is the most popular sport.

However, those who try to make arguments for those sports will be highly opposed by the fans of world football. World football is a global game that connects almost every single person on the planet. 

Here are 20 reasons why world football is the best sport in the world. 

Passion Surrounding the Sport
1 OF 20
No matter where you watch a football match, one thing never changes.

That one thing is the passion that everyone around the game contains for football. Regardless of what part of the world you are in, the passion for the sport remains the same. 

The same passion that is seen in homes across the world is seen at the stadium and on the pitch during each matchday. 

Every major stadium in world football is packed each weekend with fans that would do anything for their club and players that would do the same,

No other sport in the world can rival the passion during matches and in the week leading up to each match every week in world football. 

Rivalry Matches
2 OF 20
One of the best times during each football season is when two bitter rivals face off against each other. 

These rivalry matches are separate from the crosstown derby matches, but they create the same hate and passion toward the opposing clubs. 

A perfect example of this would be the Manchester United vs. Liverpool matches that showcase two of the most successful clubs in English football. Other rivalries get created through continental matchups like Barcelona vs. Manchester United in two of the last four UEFA Champions League finals. 

These rivalries not only add intrigue to the buildup to each match, but they also add to the play on the pitch. 

In each rivalry match played in world football, the impetus of the players from both clubs is raised above their normal level. 

No Age Limit
3 OF 20
All of the primary American professional sports require their athletes to be a certain age to play. 

For example, the NFL has a policy that players have to be three years out of high school before entering the NFL draft. In the NBA, players must be a year removed from high school before entering the draft.

In world football, there are no age requirements for players to take the pitch. 

Once a club thinks a player is ready to play first-team football, they will throw that player out on the pitch. 

The latest examples of this process are Raheem Sterling of Liverpool and Luke Shaw of Southampton 

Both players made their debuts at the age of 17 this season and impressed their fans with spectacular performances.

If Sterling or Shaw were American football or basketball players, they would not be able to represent their teams until the age of 19 at the earliest. 

Historic Stadiums
4 OF 20
In America, you can barely find historic stadiums that were built over a century ago.

Across Europe and South America, that is the custom for football stadiums. 

Palatial stadiums like Anfield, Old Trafford, Camp Nou, Maracana, Azteca, and the Bernabeu have stood for years and will be going nowhere anytime soon. 

Every time a football fan steps into one of those wonderful stadiums, a sense of awe and wonderment fill the spectator's body. 

In American sports, stadiums rarely last over 40 years due to sports franchises in the United States having to keep up with every other franchise in the game. 

Relegation
5 OF 20
One of the most unique facets of world football is the relegation. Most top-flight leagues have their worst three clubs sent down to the division below them.

Instead of the reward of a high draft pick like in American sports, the worst clubs in world football are forced to suffer the utter pain of relegation. 

The relegation system is truly unique, and it makes a match between two clubs at the bottom of table worth watching because of the relegation factor.

Promotion
6 OF 20
On the opposite end of the spectrum, promotion to the top flight means everything to a club.

Even if a club stays in a top European league like the EPL or La Liga for just one season, the financial gains and fan recognition will forever help the promoted club. 

Some clubs relish the opportunity to earn a promotion to the top flight in their country more than the opportunity to qualify for the European places, a spot in the table where most promoted clubs barely reach.

Dramatic Announcers
7 OF 20
World football rarely gets criticized for its abundance of quality play-by-play announcers. 

The cream of the crop in world football announcing is Martin Tyler, who has been calling Premier League matches since its inception in 1992. 

Tyler's voice has become known across the globe, with his call of Sergio Aguero's goal to win the EPL title last season being his most recent historic call. 

Fans of the EPL have also been graced with the voice of Ian Darke, who has come to the forefront of football broadcasting over the past few years as his work continues alongside former Liverpool player Steve McManaman for ESPN.

Another fantastic voice to call world football matches is Ray Hudson, whose commentary for numerous European leagues in recent years has gained plenty of popularity. 

With three of the greatest voices in the world calling the sport, why even look to another sport for better commentary